compound-beta
Groq Logo
Compound-beta is a compound AI system powered by multiple openly available models already supported in GroqCloud to intelligently and selectively use tools to answer user queries, starting first with web search and code execution.
Try now on Groq
Rate limits for compound-beta and compound-beta-mini are determined by the rate limits of the individual models that comprise them.
Key Technical Specifications
Model Architecture
Compound-beta leverages Llama 4 Scout for core reasoning along with Llama 3.3 70B to help with routing and tool use.

Performance Metrics
Groq developed a new evaluation benchmark for measuring search capabilities called RealtimeEval. This benchmark is designed to evaluate tool-using systems on current events and live data. On the benchmark, Compound Beta outperformed GPT-4o-search-preview and GPT-4o-mini-search-preview significantly.
Learn More About Agentic Tooling
Discover how to build powerful applications with real-time web search and code execution
Technical Details
FEATURE	VALUE
Context Window (Tokens)	128K
Max Output Tokens	8,192
Max File Size	N/A
Token Generation Speed	350 tokens per second
Input Token Price	Varies. Pricing is based on input tokens to underlying models (while in preview)
Output Token Price	Varies. Pricing is based on output tokens from underlying models (while in preview)
Tool Use	Not Supported
Agentic Tooling	Supported
JSON Mode	Supported
Image Support	Not Supported
Use Cases
Realtime Web Search
Automatically access up-to-date information from the web using the built-in web search tool powered by Tavily.

Code Execution
Execute Python code automatically using the code execution tool powered by E2B.

Code Generation and Technical Tasks
Create AI tools for code generation, debugging, and technical problem-solving with high-quality multilingual support.
Best Practices
Use system prompts to improve steerability and reduce false refusals. Compound-beta is designed to be highly steerable with appropriate system prompts.
Consider implementing system-level protections like Llama Guard for input filtering and response validation.
Deploy with appropriate safeguards when working in specialized domains or with critical content.
Compound-beta should not be used by customers for processing protected health information. It is not a HIPAA Covered Cloud Service under Groq's Business Associate Addendum for customers at this time.
Quick Start
Experience the capabilities of compound-beta on Groq:

curl
JavaScript
Python
JSON

pip install groq

from groq import Groq
client = Groq()
completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="compound-beta",
    messages=[
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Explain why fast inference is critical for reasoning models"
        }
    ]
)
print(completion.choices[0].message.content)